In this section, we'll learn
about one of the most useful
features of object-oriented
programming languages, inheritance.
Conceptually inheritance
is easy to understand.
However, inheritance in
c++ can be very complex.
We'll keep it simple in this section
so that the basics of inheritance in
c++ are clear and you can have the
foundation to study more advanced
concepts in more advanced courses.
First, we'll look at what inheritance
is and why it's so useful, think
reusability, and then we'll discuss
some of the terminology and notations
used when talking about inheritance.
Aggregation is also a reusability
mechanism, and we'll see the
difference between inheritance
and aggregation since many times
we can use aggregation instead of
inheritance to achieve what we want
and avoid unnecessary complexity.
Then we'll get into the
syntax of inheritance in c++.
We'll learn how to derive one
class from an existing class
and discuss the three types of
inheritance provided by c++.
You may recall when we talked
about the public and private class
access modifiers in section 13.
I mentioned that there
was a third type of access
modifier name protected.
Well, protected is used in the
context of inheritance, and
we'll see how it can be useful
in that context in this section.
Then we'll look at constructors and
destructors and see how they work when
we've got inheritance hierarchies.
With inheritance, we can create
new classes that modify the
behavior of their parent classes.
So we'll see how that works
and how it can be useful.
Finally, we'll talk about what class
hierarchies are, and we'll do a short
introduction to multiple inheritance.
Once we understand the basics of
inheritance in this section, the
next section will really open up
the power of c++ when we talk about
polymorphism when it's used with
inheritance and polymorphic methods.
So let's head to the next video and
see what inheritance is all about.